I have just been to see. Her Majesty the Queen has invited me to form
a government and I have accepted. I pay tribute to the fortitude and
patience of my predecessor had deep sense of public service. But in
spite of all her effort. It has become clear. There are pessimists at
home and abroad to think after three years of indecision that this
country has become a prisoner to the old arguments of twenty sixteen
and in this home of democracy. We are incapable of honouring a
democratic mandate and so I am standing before you today to tell you
the British people that those critics are wrong. The doubters. The
Domesday was the gloom sisters. They are going to get it wrong. The
people who bet against Britain are going to lose their shirts. But
this will restore trust in a democracy and we're going to fulfil the
repeated promises of Parliament to the people and come out of the eu
on October, the thirty first. No ifs or buts and we will do a new deal
a better deal. That will maximise the opportunities of brexit While
allowing us to develop a new and exciting partnership with the rest of
Europe, based on. Free Trade and mutual support. I have every
confidence that in ninety nine days' Time we will have cracked it. But
you know what we are going to wait ninety nine days because the
British people have had enough of waiting, the time has come to act to
take decisions to give strong leadership and change this country for
the better. And though the Queen has just honoured me with this
extraordinary office of state my job is to serve you look people
because the advert was one point, we politicians need to remember it
is that the people are our bosses is to make your streets safer and
where have you been with another twenty thousand police on the streets
and we start recruiting. Forthwith, my job is to make sure you don't
have to wait three weeks to see your gp and we start work this week
with twenty new hospital upgrades and ensuring that the money for the
nhs Really does get to the front line is to protect you or your
parents or grandparents from the fear of having to sell your home to
pay for the costs of care and so I am announcing now, now on the steps
of Downing Street that we will fix the crisis in social care once and
for all with a clear plan. We have prepared to give every older
person. The dignity and security, my job is to make sure your kids get
a superb education, wherever they are in the country and that is why
we have already announced that we're going to level up per pupil
funding in primary and secondary schools and that is the work. The
begins immediately behind that black door and though I am today,
building a great team of men and women. I will take personal
responsibility for the change. I want to see. Never mind the backstop.
The buck stops here and I'll tell you something else about my job. It
is to be Prime Minister of the whole United Kingdom. That means
uniting our country answering at last the plea of the forgotten people
and the left behind towns. By physically and literally renewing the
ties that bind us together, so that with safer streets and better
education and fantastic new road and rail infrastructure and full
fibre, broadband, we level up across Britain with higher wages higher
living wage. Each higher productivity. We close the opportunity gap,
giving millions of young people, the chance to own their own homes and
giving business. The confidence to invest across the UK because it is
time we unleashed the productive power, not just of London and the
Southeast, but of every corner of England, Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland. The awesome foursome that are incarcerated in that
red, white and blue flag, who, together are so much more than the sum
of their parts and and political personality is admired and even loved
around the world for our inventiveness. Farah humour for our
universities are scientists, our armed forces, our diplomacy. For the
Equalities on which we insist. Where the race or gender or lgbt Or the
right of every girl in the world to twelve years of quality education
for the values we stand for around the world. Every now. Everyone
knows the values that flag represent it stands for freedom and free
speech and had his corpse and the rule of law and above all. It stands
for democracy. That is why we will come out of the eu on October, the
thirty first because in the end. brexit Was a fundamental decision by
the British people that they wanted their laws made by people that
they can elect and they can remove from office and we must now respect
that decision and create a new partnership with our European friends
as warm as close. And as affectionate as possible and the first step
is to repeat unequivocally a guarantee to the three point two million.
Eu nationals now living and working among a slice a directly to you.
Thank you. Thank you for your contribution to our society. Thank you
for your patience and I can assure you that under this government. You
will have the absolute certainty of their right to live and remain and
I say next to a friend in Arles and in Brussels and around the Eu I am
convinced we can do a deal without checks at the Irish border because
we refuse under any circumstances to have such checks and yet. Without
that anti democratic backstop and is. Of course, vital at the same
time we prepare for the remote possibility. The Brussels refuses any
further to negotiate and we are forced to come out with no deal. Not
because we want that outcome of course not. But because it is only
common sense, man. Let me stress that there is a vital sense in which
those preparations cannot be wasted and that is because our under and
any circumstances. We will need to get ready at some point in the near
future to come out of the eu customs union and out of regulatory
control off fully determines at last to take advantage of brexit
Because that is the course. On which this country is now set with high
hearts and growing confidence. We will. Now accelerate the work of
getting ready in the ports will be ready and the banks will be reading
the factories will be ready and business will be ready at the
hospitals will be ready, are amazing food and farming sector will be
ready and waiting to continue selling ever more. Not just here, but
around the world. And don't forget that in the event of a no deal
outcome. We will have that extra lubrication of the thirty nine
billion pounds and whatever deal. We do we will prepare this autumn
for an economic package to boost British business and to lengthen his
country's lead as the number one destination in this continent for
overseas investment and to all those who continue to prophesy
disaster. I say yes, there will be difficulties there. I believe that
with energy and application. They will be far less serious than some
have claimed. But if there is one thing that has really sapped the
confidence of business over the last three years. It is not the
decisions. We have taken it is a refusal to take decisions and to
those who say we cannot be ready. I say. Do not underestimate this
country. Do not underestimate our powers of organisation and our
determination because we know the norm. The strengths of this economy
in life sciences in Tech in academia, in music, the arts culture and
financial services. It is here that we are using gene therapy for the
first time to treat the most common form of blindness here in Britain,
we are leading the world in Battery technology will help cut CO two
and tackle climate change and produce green jobs for the next
generation. And as we prepare for a post brexit Future. It is time we
look. Not at the risks, but at the opportunities that are upon us. So
let us begin work now to create free ports will drive growth and
thousands of high skilled jobs in left behind areas. Let's start now
deliberate. You case. Extraordinary bioscience sector from anti
genetic modification rules. Let's develop the blight resistant crops
that will feed the world. Let's get going now on our own position
navigation and timing satellite and Earth observation. Systems UK
Assets orbiting in space with all the long term strategic and
commercial benefits for this country. Let's change the tax rules to
provide extra incentives to invest in capital and research. Let's
promote the welfare of animals. There's always been so close to their
hearts of the British people. And, yes. Let's start now on those free
trade deals, because it is free trade that has done more than anything
else to lift millions out of poverty all this and more. All we can do
now and only now. And this extraordinary moment in our history and
after three years of unfounded self doubt it is time to change the
record to recover a natural and historic role as an enterprising
outward looking and truly global Britain, generous in temper and
engaged with the world. No one in the last few centuries has succeeded
in betting against the pluck and nerve of this country. They will not
succeed. Today we in this government will work flat out to give this
country. The leadership. It deserves that work begins now. Thank you
very much.